README.md, before:

# sbomify SBOM Library

A collection of Software Bill of Materials (SBOMs) for popular open-source projects, automatically extracted and uploaded to [sbomify](https://sbomify.com) for public browsing.

## Overview

This repository manages SBOM extraction from multiple sources:

- **Docker OCI Attestations** - Extract SBOMs embedded in Docker images via BuildKit attestations
- **Chainguard Images** - Download signed SBOM attestations from Chainguard images via cosign
- **GitHub Releases** - Download SBOMs published as release assets
- **Lockfile Generation** - Generate SBOMs from project dependency lockfiles

Each app has its own folder with version tracking. When you bump the `version` in `config.yaml`, only that app's SBOM is rebuilt and uploaded - not the entire repository.

**Note:** Each version only needs to be processed once. Once an SBOM is uploaded to sbomify, it is permanently stored there. There is no need to re-process the same version.

## Projects

| Project | Component | Source | Job | sbomify |
|---------|-----------|--------|-----|---------|
| [Caddy](https://github.com/caddyserver/caddy) | Caddy | GitHub Release | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-caddy.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-caddy.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/caddy/) |
| [Dependency Track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) | API Server | GitHub Release | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/dependency-track/) |
| [Dependency Track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend) | Frontend | GitHub Release | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track-frontend.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track-frontend.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/dependency-track/) |
| [OSV Scanner](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner) | OSV Scanner | Lockfile | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-osv-scanner.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-osv-scanner.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/osv-scanner/) |

## Directory Structure

```
.
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       ├── sbom-builder.yml          # Reusable workflow (main logic)
│       ├── _sbom-template.yml        # Template for new app workflows
│       └── sbom-<app-name>.yml       # Per-app workflow
├── apps/
│   └── <app-name>/                   # Example app
│       └── config.yaml               # App configuration (includes version)
├── scripts/
│   ├── fetch-sbom.sh                 # Main entry point
│   ├── lib/
│   │   └── common.sh                 # Shared utilities
│   └── sources/
│       ├── docker-attestation.sh     # Docker extraction
│       ├── github-release.sh         # GitHub release download
│       └── lockfile-generator.sh     # Lockfile-based generation
└── README.md
```

## Quick Start

### Adding a New App

1. **Create the app folder:**
   ```bash
   mkdir -p apps/myapp
   ```

2. **Create `apps/myapp/config.yaml`:**
   ```yaml
   name: myapp
   version: "1.0.0"  # Must be valid semver
   format: cyclonedx  # or spdx

   source:
     type: docker  # or github_release, lockfile, chainguard
     image: "library/myapp"
     registry: "docker.io"

   sbomify:
     component_id: "your-component-id"
     component_name: "My App"
   ```

   Valid version formats: `1.2.3`, `1.2.3-rc1`, `1.2.3-alpha.1+build`. **Note:** `latest` is not allowed.

3. **Create the workflow file:**
   ```bash
   cp .github/workflows/_sbom-template.yml .github/workflows/sbom-myapp.yml
   # Edit the file and replace 'example-app' with 'myapp'
   ```

4. **Commit and push:**
   ```bash
   git add apps/myapp .github/workflows/sbom-myapp.yml
   git commit -m "Add myapp SBOM"
   git push
   ```

### Bumping a Version

Simply update the `version` field in `config.yaml`:

```yaml
# apps/nginx/config.yaml
name: nginx
version: "1.26.0"  # Update this line
...
```

```bash
git add apps/nginx/config.yaml
git commit -m "Bump nginx to 1.26.0"
git push
```

The GitHub Action will automatically rebuild and upload only the nginx SBOM.

## Configuration Reference

### App Configuration (`config.yaml`)

```yaml
# Required: App name (should match folder name)
name: nginx

# Required: Version (must be valid semver)
version: "1.25.4"

# Required: SBOM format
format: cyclonedx  # cyclonedx | spdx

# Required: Source configuration
source:
  type: docker  # docker | github_release | lockfile | chainguard

  # ... source-specific options (see below)

# Required for upload: sbomify configuration
sbomify:
  component_id: "abc123-def456"
  component_name: "Nginx"
```

### Source Types

#### Docker OCI Attestations

Extract SBOMs from Docker image attestations (requires images built with BuildKit SBOM support):

```yaml
source:
  type: docker
  image: "library/nginx"          # Image name (required)
  registry: "docker.io"           # Registry (default: docker.io)
  platform: "linux/amd64"         # Platform (default: linux/amd64)
```

#### Chainguard Images

Download signed SBOM attestations from Chainguard images using cosign:

```yaml
source:
  type: chainguard
  image: "nginx"                  # Chainguard image name (required)
  registry: "cgr.dev/chainguard"  # Registry (default: cgr.dev/chainguard)
  platform: "linux/amd64"         # Platform (default: linux/amd64)
```

Note: Chainguard images use SPDX format by default. Set `format: spdx` in your config.

#### GitHub Release

Download SBOMs from GitHub release assets:

```yaml
source:
  type: github_release
  repo: "owner/repo"              # GitHub repository (required)
  asset: "bom.json"               # Asset filename (required, supports ${version})
  tag_prefix: "v"                 # Tag prefix (default: "")
  tag_suffix: ""                  # Tag suffix (default: "")
```

The `asset` field supports `${version}` substitution for projects that include the version in the asset filename:

```yaml
source:
  type: github_release
  repo: "caddyserver/caddy"
  asset: "caddy_${version}_linux_amd64.sbom"  # Becomes caddy_2.10.1_linux_amd64.sbom
  tag_prefix: "v"
```

#### Lockfile Generation

Generate SBOMs from project lockfiles:

```yaml
source:
  type: lockfile
  repo: "owner/repo"              # GitHub repository (required)
  lockfile: "package-lock.json"   # Path to lockfile (required)
  tag_prefix: "v"                 # Tag prefix
  generator: "auto"               # cdxgen | syft | auto
  extra_files:                    # Additional files to download
    - "package.json"
```

## Local Development

### Prerequisites

- **bash** 4.0+
- **jq** - JSON processor
- **yq** - YAML processor

For Docker sources:
- **docker** with buildx, or
- **crane** (from go-containerregistry), or
- **oras**

For Chainguard sources:
- **cosign** (from sigstore)

For lockfile generation:
- **cdxgen** (`npm install -g @cyclonedx/cdxgen`), or
- **syft**

### Running Locally

```bash
# List available apps
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh --list

# Fetch SBOM for an app
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx

# Fetch with verbose output
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --verbose

# Dry-run mode (no actual fetching)
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --dry-run

# Output to file
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --output sbom.json

# Override version
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --version 1.24.0
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `LOG_LEVEL` | Logging level: DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR | `INFO` |
| `DRY_RUN` | Run in dry-run mode | `false` |
| `SBOMIFY_TOKEN` | sbomify API token for upload | - |
| `GH_TOKEN` | GitHub token for API access | - |

## GitHub Actions

### Secrets

Configure these secrets in your repository:

| Secret | Description | Required |
|--------|-------------|----------|
| `SBOMIFY_TOKEN` | sbomify API token for uploading SBOMs | For upload |

### Manual Trigger

Each app workflow can be manually triggered from the Actions tab with optional dry-run mode.

### Workflow Structure

- **Per-app workflows** (`sbom-<app-name>.yml`) - Thin wrappers that trigger on config.yaml changes
- **Reusable workflow** (`sbom-builder.yml`) - Contains all the build logic
- **Template** (`_sbom-template.yml`) - Copy this to create new app workflows

This design ensures:
1. Only the changed app is rebuilt (via path filters on config.yaml)
2. Build logic is centralized and maintainable
3. New apps just need a simple workflow file

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Add your app following the Quick Start guide
3. Test locally with `./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh <app-name>`
4. Submit a pull request

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

feat: add Keycloak and delegate SBOM generation to sbomify action
Add Keycloak v26.4.7 using lockfile source (pom.xml from GitHub).

Refactor lockfile handling to delegate SBOM generation to the sbomify
GitHub Action instead of running cdxgen/syft locally:

- Remove cdxgen installation from workflow for lockfile sources
- Update sbom-builder.yml to pass LOCK_FILE to sbomify action
- Simplify lockfile-generator.sh to only download lockfiles
- Add separate workflow steps for SBOM vs lockfile sources

New files:
- apps/keycloak/config.yaml
- .github/workflows/sbom-keycloak.yml

Updated documentation to reflect that SBOM generation from lockfiles
is now handled by the sbomify GitHub Action.

README.md, after:

# sbomify SBOM Library

A collection of Software Bill of Materials (SBOMs) for popular open-source projects, automatically extracted and uploaded to [sbomify](https://sbomify.com) for public browsing.

## Overview

This repository manages SBOM extraction from multiple sources:

- **Docker OCI Attestations** - Extract SBOMs embedded in Docker images via BuildKit attestations
- **Chainguard Images** - Download signed SBOM attestations from Chainguard images via cosign
- **GitHub Releases** - Download SBOMs published as release assets
- **Lockfile Sources** - Download lockfiles for SBOM generation by sbomify

Each app has its own folder with version tracking. When you bump the `version` in `config.yaml`, only that app's SBOM is rebuilt and uploaded - not the entire repository.

**Note:** Each version only needs to be processed once. Once an SBOM is uploaded to sbomify, it is permanently stored there. There is no need to re-process the same version.

## Projects

| Project | Component | Source | Job | sbomify |
|---------|-----------|--------|-----|---------|
| [Caddy](https://github.com/caddyserver/caddy) | Caddy | GitHub Release | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-caddy.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-caddy.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/caddy/) |
| [Dependency Track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/dependency-track) | API Server | GitHub Release | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/dependency-track/) |
| [Dependency Track](https://github.com/DependencyTrack/frontend) | Frontend | GitHub Release | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track-frontend.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-dependency-track-frontend.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/dependency-track/) |
| [Keycloak](https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak) | Keycloak | Lockfile | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-keycloak.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-keycloak.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/keycloak/) |
| [OSV Scanner](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner) | OSV Scanner | Lockfile | [![SBOM](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-osv-scanner.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbomify/library/actions/workflows/sbom-osv-scanner.yml) | [![sbomify](https://sbomify.com/assets/images/logo/badge.svg)](https://library.sbomify.com/product/osv-scanner/) |

## Directory Structure

```
.
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       ├── sbom-builder.yml          # Reusable workflow (main logic)
│       ├── _sbom-template.yml        # Template for new app workflows
│       └── sbom-<app-name>.yml       # Per-app workflow
├── apps/
│   └── <app-name>/                   # Example app
│       └── config.yaml               # App configuration (includes version)
├── scripts/
│   ├── fetch-sbom.sh                 # Main entry point
│   ├── lib/
│   │   └── common.sh                 # Shared utilities
│   └── sources/
│       ├── docker-attestation.sh     # Docker extraction
│       ├── github-release.sh         # GitHub release download
│       └── lockfile-generator.sh     # Lockfile download
└── README.md
```

## Quick Start

### Adding a New App

1. **Create the app folder:**
   ```bash
   mkdir -p apps/myapp
   ```

2. **Create `apps/myapp/config.yaml`:**
   ```yaml
   name: myapp
   version: "1.0.0"  # Must be valid semver
   format: cyclonedx  # or spdx

   source:
     type: docker  # or github_release, lockfile, chainguard
     image: "library/myapp"
     registry: "docker.io"

   sbomify:
     component_id: "your-component-id"
     component_name: "My App"
   ```

   Valid version formats: `1.2.3`, `1.2.3-rc1`, `1.2.3-alpha.1+build`. **Note:** `latest` is not allowed.

3. **Create the workflow file:**
   ```bash
   cp .github/workflows/_sbom-template.yml .github/workflows/sbom-myapp.yml
   # Edit the file and replace 'example-app' with 'myapp'
   ```

4. **Commit and push:**
   ```bash
   git add apps/myapp .github/workflows/sbom-myapp.yml
   git commit -m "Add myapp SBOM"
   git push
   ```

### Bumping a Version

Simply update the `version` field in `config.yaml`:

```yaml
# apps/nginx/config.yaml
name: nginx
version: "1.26.0"  # Update this line
...
```

```bash
git add apps/nginx/config.yaml
git commit -m "Bump nginx to 1.26.0"
git push
```

The GitHub Action will automatically rebuild and upload only the nginx SBOM.

## Configuration Reference

### App Configuration (`config.yaml`)

```yaml
# Required: App name (should match folder name)
name: nginx

# Required: Version (must be valid semver)
version: "1.25.4"

# Required: SBOM format
format: cyclonedx  # cyclonedx | spdx

# Required: Source configuration
source:
  type: docker  # docker | github_release | lockfile | chainguard

  # ... source-specific options (see below)

# Required for upload: sbomify configuration
sbomify:
  component_id: "abc123-def456"
  component_name: "Nginx"
```

### Source Types

#### Docker OCI Attestations

Extract SBOMs from Docker image attestations (requires images built with BuildKit SBOM support):

```yaml
source:
  type: docker
  image: "library/nginx"          # Image name (required)
  registry: "docker.io"           # Registry (default: docker.io)
  platform: "linux/amd64"         # Platform (default: linux/amd64)
```

#### Chainguard Images

Download signed SBOM attestations from Chainguard images using cosign:

```yaml
source:
  type: chainguard
  image: "nginx"                  # Chainguard image name (required)
  registry: "cgr.dev/chainguard"  # Registry (default: cgr.dev/chainguard)
  platform: "linux/amd64"         # Platform (default: linux/amd64)
```

Note: Chainguard images use SPDX format by default. Set `format: spdx` in your config.

#### GitHub Release

Download SBOMs from GitHub release assets:

```yaml
source:
  type: github_release
  repo: "owner/repo"              # GitHub repository (required)
  asset: "bom.json"               # Asset filename (required, supports ${version})
  tag_prefix: "v"                 # Tag prefix (default: "")
  tag_suffix: ""                  # Tag suffix (default: "")
```

The `asset` field supports `${version}` substitution for projects that include the version in the asset filename:

```yaml
source:
  type: github_release
  repo: "caddyserver/caddy"
  asset: "caddy_${version}_linux_amd64.sbom"  # Becomes caddy_2.10.1_linux_amd64.sbom
  tag_prefix: "v"
```

#### Lockfile Sources

Download lockfiles for SBOM generation by the sbomify GitHub Action:

```yaml
source:
  type: lockfile
  repo: "owner/repo"              # GitHub repository (required)
  lockfile: "package-lock.json"   # Path to lockfile (required)
  tag_prefix: "v"                 # Tag prefix
```

Note: SBOM generation from lockfiles is handled automatically by the sbomify GitHub Action.

## Local Development

### Prerequisites

- **bash** 4.0+
- **jq** - JSON processor
- **yq** - YAML processor

For Docker sources:
- **docker** with buildx, or
- **crane** (from go-containerregistry), or
- **oras**

For Chainguard sources:
- **cosign** (from sigstore)

For lockfile sources:
- No additional tools required (SBOM generation handled by sbomify GitHub Action)

### Running Locally

```bash
# List available apps
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh --list

# Fetch SBOM for an app
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx

# Fetch with verbose output
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --verbose

# Dry-run mode (no actual fetching)
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --dry-run

# Output to file
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --output sbom.json

# Override version
./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh nginx --version 1.24.0
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `LOG_LEVEL` | Logging level: DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR | `INFO` |
| `DRY_RUN` | Run in dry-run mode | `false` |
| `SBOMIFY_TOKEN` | sbomify API token for upload | - |
| `GH_TOKEN` | GitHub token for API access | - |

## GitHub Actions

### Secrets

Configure these secrets in your repository:

| Secret | Description | Required |
|--------|-------------|----------|
| `SBOMIFY_TOKEN` | sbomify API token for uploading SBOMs | For upload |

### Manual Trigger

Each app workflow can be manually triggered from the Actions tab with optional dry-run mode.

### Workflow Structure

- **Per-app workflows** (`sbom-<app-name>.yml`) - Thin wrappers that trigger on config.yaml changes
- **Reusable workflow** (`sbom-builder.yml`) - Contains all the build logic
- **Template** (`_sbom-template.yml`) - Copy this to create new app workflows

This design ensures:
1. Only the changed app is rebuilt (via path filters on config.yaml)
2. Build logic is centralized and maintainable
3. New apps just need a simple workflow file

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Add your app following the Quick Start guide
3. Test locally with `./scripts/fetch-sbom.sh <app-name>`
4. Submit a pull request

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
